https://careers.pypl.com/Categories/Engineering/
PayPal Careers - Job Category - Engineering
Skip to main content
How We Recruit
University Hiring
Belonging
Benefits
Job Category
Locations
Careers Blog
My Profile
Search query
Engineering
CAREERSJOB CATEGORY ENGINEERING

Join a global leader in the world of fintech and commerce that helps make moving money, selling and shopping simple, personalized and secure. At PayPal, we build diverse teams that reflect our broad and global customer base to create solutions and services that serve our customers in approximately 200 markets. If you have the right skills and a relentless focus on the customer, we'll provide the support you need to do the best work of your life.

Our teams

The PayPal Product and Platform Engineering team builds solutions that power our next-gen financial services and commerce platform. The Product and Platform Engineering domains consist of:

China Technology Team
Common Platforms
Consumer Engineering
Developer Productivity Engineering
Enterprise Architecture
Enterprise Cyber Security
Merchant Engineering
Office of the CTO
Payments Engineering

The Business Infrastructure & Technology Solutions organization is responsible for the internal technology processes and systems that ensure PayPal’s modern, secure, reliable, and scalable technology foundation, including:

Site Reliability & Cloud Engineering
Enterprise Data Platforms
Enterprise Data Governance
Employee Technology Experience
Office of the CIO
View All Engineering Jobs
Meet our Leader

“While at PayPal, I have experienced firsthand how intentional the company is around promoting a strong employee-centered culture that is reinforced by our core values of Collaboration, Inclusion, Innovation and Wellness. The mission, the value, and the purpose of what we do is incredibly strong, and it shows across our employees and customers. To build and strengthen the foundation of our values, I have the honor of co-chairing Unity, one of many employee resource groups dedicated to advancing equity here at PayPal. I am also fortunate to lead the Business Infrastructure and Technology Solutions (BITS) organization, a world-class technology team of diverse and talented professionals who are passionate about creating highly reliable customer experiences, accelerating innovation, and continuously delivering business value.”

Archana Deskus

Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer

Visit our Engineering Testimonial page to hear more from our employees
 
Benefits for your well-being

PayPal believes in advancing the wellbeing and financial wellness of all our employees and is a trailblazing leader in the space. You will work in a company that puts people first- promoting wellbeing, flexible work, and support for employees and their families.

Explore Benefits Available To You
Jobs

ENGINEER JOBS BY CATEGORY

VIEW ALL JOBS
Software Development

It’s all about the code - high quality, efficient, and elegant code that fuels the commerce and payments revolution. Take on complex technical challenges and create the infrastructure and applications that unlock more economic opportunity for millions of people every day.

View all Software Development jobs
 
Software Architecture

Plan, design, and oversee the technical transformation of global commerce. Our architects are technologists with a passion to design systems and intelligent solutions for technology programs that drive value for our customers, our company, and communities around the world.

View all Software Architecture jobs
 
Software QA

You are the ultimate gatekeeper of the customer experience. A product isn’t ready as a solution for customers until you say so. Our Quality Engineers ensure that new releases work as expected for all of our customers, every time.

View all Software QA jobs
 
Technical Product Management

Our project management team works with product and development teams to identify new ways to deliver exceptional experiences for people and businesses. You’ll help deliver the strategy and vision for technical solutions that address constantly evolving economic needs and opportunities for our customers.

View all Technical Product Management jobs
 
University Program

As an intern or a recent graduate at PayPal, you will have the resources and support you need, to build a successful career.

View our University Program 
Join Our Talent Community
Sign Up
Follow us
linkedin
twitter
facebook
insta
Learn more about PayPal

Help Contact Fees Security Apps Shop Enterprise Partners Feedback
 
See all countries
About Newsroom Jobs Investor Relations Values in Action Public Policy Sitemap Accessibility
 
© 1999 - 2024 Privacy Cookies Legal

If you accept cookies, we'll use them to improve and customise your experience and enable our partners to show you personalised ads when you visit other sites. Manage cookies and learn more

Accept
Decline