https://www.glassdoor.com/Job/los-angeles-ca-us-software-engineer-new-grad-jobs-SRCH_IL.0,17_IC1146821_KO18,44.htm
5 software engineer new grad Jobs in Los Angeles, CA, May 2024 | Glassdoor
Skip to main content
Skip to content
Skip to footer
Community
Jobs
Companies
Salaries
Search
Search
Upload your resume - let employers find you
For You
Search
Your Activity
Create job alert
Salary range
Company rating
5 Software engineer new grad jobs in Los Angeles, CA
Most relevant
Property Matrix
4.3
Entry Level Software Developer
Culver City, CA
$50K - $80K (Employer est.)
30d
Thales
3.7
Software Configuration Management/Devops Engineer - New Graduate Program
Irvine, CA
$73K - $105K (Employer est.)
30d+
AeroVironment
3.7
Software Engineer (EMB) I
Simi Valley, CA
$62K - $81K (Employer est.)
9d
Woongjin, Inc
3.2
TMS / WMS Developer w/ Java - Bilingual (Korean/English)
Irvine, CA
$110K - $130K (Employer est.)
25d
Athena Engineering, Inc.
4.9
Building Automation Design Engineer
San Dimas, CA
$30.00 - $40.00 Per Hour (Employer est.)
Easy Apply
6d
Create alert
Company rating: 4.1 out of 5 stars.

4.1

Glassdoor Company Spotlight
ASML

863 open positions

ASML is a key player in the fast-paced industry that makes it all happen, since we are one of the world's leading manufacturers of chip-making machines, We provide chipmakers with hardware, software and services to mass produce patterns on silicon, increasing the value of a chip while lowering the manufacturing cost. We make machines that make microchips; the hearts of the devices that keep us informed, entertained and safe; devices that improve our quality of life and help to tackle the world’s toughest problems. We build some of the most amazing machines that you will ever see, and the software to run them. Never satisfied, we measure our performance in units that begin with pico or nano. To continue leading the race to produce smaller, faster, cheaper chips, ASML is looking for people who always want to do better and never give up. People who love what they do – not because it’s easy, but because it’s hard. People who will help find the best idea, the best solution, the best way forward. Whether you are a student or an experienced engineer, whether you want to design or build, work with customers or software code, we are looking for people like you to help us push technology further. Explore what we have to offer. If it sounds right for you, let’s talk about how you can be part of progress.
Learn more

Sponsored

Frequently asked questions
What should I search on Glassdoor to find software engineer new grad jobs in Los Angeles, CA?
What are the top jobs in Los Angeles, CA?
What are the top cities near Los Angeles, CA with open software engineer new grad jobs?
What companies are hiring for software engineer new grad jobs in Los Angeles, CA?
Popular Search
Help / Contact UsTerms of UsePrivacy & CookiesCookie Consent ToolDo Not Sell My Personal Information
United States
Copyright © 2008—2024, Glassdoor, Inc. "Glassdoor" and logo are registered trademarks of Glassdoor, Inc
Property Matrix
4.3
Entry Level Software Developer
Culver City, CA
Apply on employer site
Apply on employer site

Minimum Qualifications:

Completed bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Math or other Science major
Excellent verbal and written communication skills
Ability to research and execute solutions based on online guides and tutorials
Technical aptitude and the ability to problem solve
Knowledge of HTML/CSS and Javascript
Strong work ethic, positive attitude and motivation to learn
Ability to work independently as well as in a team environment
High level of professionalism and ethics

Preferred qualifications:

Technical creativity and a history finding creative solutions to interesting problems
Ability to manage multiple priorities in a fast paced environment
Experience with React, Ruby on Rails and SQL
Experience in Java, web development, python
Experience working with the Selenium test suite

About Property Matrix

Property Matrix is the future of property management software. Utilizing cloud services, our property management platform was designed to be both powerful and scalable to meet the needs of mid range to enterprise businesses around the globe. We deliver value to our clients by providing streamlined solutions that modernize their business operations. We are revolutionizing how people pay rent online, submit maintenance requests, and apply for apartments online. Our software also helps manage shopping centers, malls and office space for commercial management companies. We include powerful features such as document scanning, email and text communication, as well as posts to Zillow, Trulia and other popular apartment listing sites. Tenant portals, payment processing and eSignature simplify tenant communication and interaction while reducing the amount of overhead when people move in and out of their building.

If you’ve ever lived in an apartment building, you’ve definitely experienced some of the inefficiencies of property management. We’re changing that.

Your Role

Property Matrix is looking for college graduates who are ready to launch their professional career in the software industry.

As an Entry Level Software Developer, you’ll take part in the design and development of software for the current and next generation of Property Matrix as a software engineer. In this role, you’ll be developing exciting new features with a team goal of streamlining business operations and improving overall user experience.

The ideal candidate is a self-starter with a strong desire to increase efficiencies, and make an impact while contributing to a cross-functional team.

We need our engineers to be versatile, display leadership qualities and be enthusiastic to take on new problems across the full-stack as we continue to push technology forward.

Your ability to creatively collaborate and execute team goals will affect scalability and directly contribute to the company mission of streamlining the operations of property management companies everywhere.

Key Responsibilities

Implement new features to existing software according to specifications
Troubleshoot, debug, and test new features
Suggest viable solutions to resolve issues with existing software
Specify implementation details for proposed new functionality and features
Maintain up-to-date records of issues with existing code, and propose potential improvements
Maintain documentation for newly-written code
Implement fixes and modifications to front end code
Support other developers by assisting in the implementation of new functionality
Write tests and fix existing tests in the automated testing suite

Our Team

Built for the future, we are a rapidly growing software company with an innovative advantage. We are a market leader with proven success in surpassing the competition in the multi-billion dollar residential and commercial real estate software industry.

We employ highly motivated and success driven individuals that are focused on delivering superior solutions to our clients. We offer highly competitive salaries, commission, bonus programs, fully paid benefits, 401k, paid vacation and unparalleled growth and development opportunities.

Job Type: Full-time

Pay: $50,000.00 - $80,000.00 per year

Benefits:

401(k)
401(k) matching
Flexible schedule
Health insurance
Paid time off
Relocation assistance
Retirement plan

Schedule:

8 hour shift
Monday to Friday

Work Location: In person

Show more
Base pay range
The minimum salary is $50K and the max salary is $80K.
$50K – $80K/yr (Employer est.)
$65K
/yr Median
Culver City, CA
If an employer includes a salary or salary range on their job, we display it as an "Employer Estimate". If a job has no salary data, Glassdoor displays a "Glassdoor Estimate" if available. To learn more about "Glassdoor Estimates," see our FAQ page.
Company overview
Size
1 to 50 Employees
Founded
2008
Type
Company - Private
Industry
Computer Hardware Development
Sector
Information Technology
Revenue
Unknown / Non-Applicable
Property Matrix ratings
4.3
83 %
Recommend to a friend
N/A
Approve of CEO
0 Ratings
Career Opportunities
4.2
Comp & Benefits
4.0
Culture & Values
4.2
Senior Management
4.2
Work/Life Balance
4.4
Property Matrix reviews by software developer
Pros
"good work life balance as well as quality team members" (in 1 review)
Cons
"Low pay" (in 1 review)
"STAY AWAY FROM THIS COMPANY AND DON'T LISTEN TO THE POSITIVE REVIEWS" (in 1 review)