In 2001 A Space Odyssey the ship's AI is able to sense the passengers' intent and work against them.
I wasn't too sure but after discussing with some classmates we came up with Chappie.
I think that Iron Man is pretty relevant to NLA ‘and AI as it is focused around a lot of futuristic tech at the time it was released and slowly becoming a reality. 
There is a game called Detroit: Become Human that seems to have relevance to NLP and AI because the game involves a setting where humanoid androids are everyday tools for humans. In the game, the androids' appearances and their voices are quite identical to humans in the game. The only difference that many can make it out is the uniforms and the blue circle on their heads.
Deus Ex Machina as I am assuming that the AI robots used NLP when processing voice to text in order to process the input data and then again when formulating the natural to speak back to the people. 
I am not sure. 
Ready Player one because it shows a world where anyone can become anything they want through the use of technology. It is more of an AI/AR virtual setting where one puts on a headset and they are transported to a universe where they can be their own real-life character.
iRobot, i think some episodes of Star Trek also ask the question of what advanced AI may be like. Bicentennial Man, the universe of Star Wars (advanced AI everywhere). I think in the Warhammer 40k lore, AI has been banned by some factions (this is actually a concept found in a couple other unrelated series).
The HER movie, and Joaquin Pheonix falling in love with an AI model.
Nowadays, I feel that most games already use AI for NPC interactions, and movies or shows could potentially use AI generated scripts or dialogues. 
Ex-machina and Free Guy are examples of movies relevant to NLP and AI. These have aspects of artificial intelligence understanding the working of the world.
The movie her is one of the movies relevant to AI and NLP, specifically AGI.
One more example would be Black Mirror which is a series on Netflix that explores ideas of AI in the future.
I think the way in which the robots are able to speak is related to NLP
A great example within a movie that is centered around NLP/AI is Jarvis from Iron Man (Marvel). Jarvis is an AI assistant that helps Tony Stark throughout his life to make things easier through speech and commands.
Many animated movies have an “AI villain” where the antagonist seems almost unbeatable because it is smarter than the other characters.
The Imitation Game is a movie that shows how Alan Turing had helped crack the Enigma code that the Germans were using to send messages over an unsecure communication line. I think it is relevant to AI, because it shows him trying to predict the most likely letters that were to emerge using the provided encrypted message.
Any movie that involves a robot a program talking and interacting with humans is relevant to NLP and AI. The best example I can think of is "her".
A movie I think could be relevant is BIG Hero 6 because the robot I think is an AI-based robot that makes decisions based on whats happening in his surroundings and will act accordingly to tho
Movies, shows, and games that are relevant to NLP and AI could be a show called Person of Interest which features an AI that is able to predict crime before it happens. Westworld is another show that features the use of AI and NLP if the robots can create and interpret speech.
The movie Avengers: Age of Ultron is relevant to NLP and AI as Ultron, the main villain in the movie, creates multiple versions of his AI self to fight against humanity and the Avengers.
robocop, thats all i can think of
Movie: Iron Man
Game: Cyberpunk 2077, TitanFall2
They all have a working AI even a robot.
Looking forward from the past, most science fiction is relevant in this context. Looking from the present forward, AI can be trained on all media using NLP, and so all media is relevant. 
Games: Nier: Automata - War between human made androids and intelligent machines from another planet. 
Recently, I have watched this movie meg3n which is about humanoid advanced robot which have feelings and can think like a human and improve its ability with machine learning. It turns out against the person who created it by the end. I think that movie covers all the aspects nlp, ai and ml since they have incorporated all to create that robot. 
I think that NLP could have a place in modifying movie scripts or generating case specific text in roleplaying games. For instance, in open world roleplaying games the developers can not prepare for every path the character might take, but generating new text or speech on the fly using AI could create a very immersive experience.
I think of HBO Silicon Valley, where in season 6 their main product centered around an AI (black-box neural net) 