the AI control the characters to do the jobs that assigned by the player.
A robot like Karen from Spongebob is relevant to NLP and AI because she is not human and still has feelings and thoughts as if she were human.
Bicentennial Man was my favorite movie about AI, because it showed how a robot developed human like traits and wanted to be a part of human society.
I think the movie Ex Machina is relevant to NLP and AI because it involves the creation of a sentient artificial intelligence that uses language to fool humans in a "turing test".
In Marvel, there is a character called Vision. He is a highly advanced AI that acts like a regular human that was developed by Iron Man. 
In Iron Man, the suit itself also has a built in AI assistant, Jarvis. Through NLP and AI, this assistant is able to understand human voice commands and execute certain actions based on them.
AI is a common theme seen in many movies. Whether it be centered around the plot or not, there are also times when AI makes an appearance in movies by just having an item or technology featured in the movie that uses AI technologies. To name a movie off the top of my head, I can think of a few Marvel movies that feature AI technologies. 
Iron Man's Jarvis and Friday, all belong to high-performance artificial intelligence.
Black Mirror Season 4 and 5 centers around the future of AI and its effects on our daily lives/human race in general. The show centers around integrating AI in human body to expand and save memories, enhance intelligence and play realistic video games where we're fully emerged inside of the game with our senses. It's a bit on the dark perspective side kind of a show but I think it's a fascinating show and everyone should give it a try!
Some examples are the game Detroit: Become Human and the movie I, Robot.
Ex Machina, Chappie
I don't watch or play many games so I don't know. Maybe Iron Man because of Jarvis?
A movie that I think is relevant to AI is the film, Ex Machina, because the movie is centered around the Turing Test and some AI robot trying to pass it. Though the Turing Test is more subjective and less scientific as a test, an AI passing the Turing Test would be convincing enough as human which implies at least human levels of intelligence. 
There is a game that I'm a very big fan of called Cyanotype Daydream, where one of the main characters is an AI who borders on developing human emotions. I'm interested in seeing if there is a real role of NLP that I could tie to this character's development and whether our future will be one not dissimilar to the world of Cyanotype Daydream.
The movie I, Robot because it is about AI fighting against humanity.
matrix (replicating human consciousness to create artificial intelligence), ex machina (also centered around a really intelligent ai)
In the movies "The Wandering Earth 2". There is a Al 550, I think it is a NLP and AI can contorl all the AI roblet  in the battle at the same time. And it contol all the engines in Moon that make the engines have the engough speed to leave Earth.
There are a lot of AI movies from walle to others. Since a lot of these AIs can understand and respond, I believe that uses NLP.
The Matrix, of course. Ex Machina is another interesting one, largely showing themes of NLP
I think 2 of the most relevant are "I, Robot" and "Eagle Eye" which although not necessarily realistic, show the consequences of increased advancement in AI. 
Iron man is a relevant example to AI and NLP. Tony Stark created J.A.R.V.I.S, Just A Rather Very Intelligent System, as essentially a personal assistant. 
Start up (K-drama): main character is a software engineer that makes a computer vision app that lets blind people ask a question like "count the money in front of me" or "what is the object in front of me", and the app will tell you what it is
Imitation Game: Alan Turing makes a computer that does a search on the decryption code
for the enigma machine